Add how-to on deploying Lieutenant in a vcluster (#35)
projectsyn/component-lieutenant: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/vcluster.adoc

= Lieutenant in vcluster

> Vcluster is a virtual Kubernetes Clusters that run inside regular namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vcluster is a virtual Kubernetes Cluster that runs in a single namespace on a host Kubernetes cluster.
```

> Installing Lieutenant in a vcluster can be helpful as it allows you to run multiple versions of Lieutenant, with different CRD versions on the same cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing Lieutenant in a vcluster can be useful as it allows you to run multiple versions of Lieutenant, with different CRD versions on the same host cluster.
```

The following steps need to be performed to deploy Lieutenant in a vcluster.

== Deploy vcluster and enable Syn

First we need a vcluster instance we can deploy Lieutenant to.
Follow the setup guide in the https://hub.syn.tools/vcluster/index.html[component-vcluster documentation] and be sure to enable Syn on the newly created virtual cluster.

After that you should be able to deploy to a vcluster and the vcluster component configuration should look similar to the following:

[code,yaml]
----
applications:
  - vcluster as lieutenant-prod
parameters:
  lieutenant_prod:
    host_service_cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
    namespace: lieutenant-prod
    ocp_route:

>       host: lieutenant-prod.apps.cluster.example.com

Reviewer: This seems quite OCP-specific. The docs should assume plain K8s for components which are hosted on github.com/projectsyn.

== Setup connection to GitLab

The Lieutenant Operator needs to be able to connect to the GitLab API to create repositories for tenants and clusters.
Follow the xref:how-tos/setup-githost.adoc[Connecting to GitLab] guide.
Afterwards the component configuration should look similar to the following:

[code,yaml]
----
parameters:
  lieutenant:
    api:
      ingress:
        host: api-prod.syn.example.com
    operator:
      vault:
        addr: https://vault.example.com
        auth_path: lieutenant
        path: clusters/kv
    auth_delegation:
      lieutenant-sa:
        apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
        kind: Group
        name: system:serviceaccounts
        namespace: lieutenant
    githosts:
      your-gitlab:
        endpoint: https://git.yourdomain.net/
        token: '?{vaultkv:${cluster:tenant}/${cluster:name}/lieutenant/githosts/your-gitlab/token}'
        host_keys: |
          git.yourdomain.net ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...
          git.yourdomain.net ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIO9EkPcVdsz/oVTI2VJkBlq8Mv/dg3rhcbgzAEKyiwUG
----

== (Optional) Enable OIDC

As a last step we can connect the created vcluster to an OIDC provider.

> This not only allow us to authenticate to vcluster using OIDC, but also enables doing so for the Lieutenant API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This not only allows us to authenticate to the vcluster Kubernetes API using OIDC, but also enables doing so for the Lieutenant API.
```

> This means after enabling this, we can authenticate ourselves to Lieutenant using `commodore login`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling this, we can authenticate ourselves to Lieutenant using `commodore login` (requires Commodore >= 0.15.0).
```
